EDU-13701: Add new section: 'Adding styles to a new section' (#1608)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/faststore/docs/customization/building-sections/creating-a-new-section.mdx

  ![new-section-structure-without-styles](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/section-structure-without-styles___7be40088d6137bdd63cbb4940c2fa599.png)

To add styles to `OurStore`, refer to the following section [Importing styles when creating a new section](#importing-styles-when-creating-a-new-section).

## Adding styles to a new section

After creating a new section, you can style it to match your store's branding. Follow the steps below using the [`OurStores`](#ourstores) section as an example.

### Instructions

> 1. In your store code, open the `components` folder and create the `ourStores.module.scss` file. This file will import the FastStore UI components styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your store code, open the `components` folder and create a `.module.scss` file for your component. For example, if your component is `OurStores`, name the file `ourStores.module.scss`. This file will contain the styles specific to this section.
```

> 2. Add the following code to the `ourStores.module.scss` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Import the necessary FastStore UI styles into your `.module.scss` file. For example, to style the `OurStores` component, we imported the styles for the [Button](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/atoms-button) and [SelectField](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/molecules-select-field) components. The `Select`  styles are also imported since `SelectField` inherits them.
```

  ```scss 
  .ourStores {
    @import '@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Button/styles.scss';
    @import '@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Select/styles.scss';
    @import '@faststore/ui/src/components/molecules/SelectField/styles.scss';
  }
  ```

> > ℹ️ This code imports the [Button](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/atoms-icon) and [SelectField](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/molecules-select-field) styles to the custom component that you are creating. The `Select` component styles is also being improted, since `SelectField` inherits it.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Import this stylesheet into the `OurStores.tsx` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the component's `.tsx` file. For example, `OurStores.tsx`. 
4. Import the newly created stylesheet into the component:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ```tsx mark=4
 import React from 'react'
 import { Button, Icon, SelectField } from '@faststore/ui'

 import styles from './ourStores.module.scss' ```

5. Apply the styles to your components using `className={styles.<className>}`. Replace `<className>` with the appropriate class name defined in your stylesheet. For example:
```

>   ```tsx mark=4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```tsx mark=13
```

  import { Button, Icon, SelectField } from '@faststore/ui'

  import styles from './ourStores.module.scss'

  export interface OurStoresProps {
    title: string
    description: string
  }

  export default function OurStores(props: OurStoresProps) {
    return (
      <section className={styles.ourStores}>
        <h2>{props.title}</h2>
        <p>{props.description}</p>
        <div>
          <SelectField
            id="select-state-store"
            label="State:"
            options={{
              newYork: 'New York',
              arizona: 'Arizona',
              massachusetts: 'Massachusetts',
              hawaii: 'Hawaii',
            }}
          />
          <SelectField
            id="select-city-store"
            label="City:"
            options={{
              newYorkCity: 'New York City',
              phoenix: 'Phoenix',
              boston: 'Boston',
              honolulu: 'Honolulu',
            }}
          />
          <Button
            variant="secondary"
            icon={<Icon name="ArrowRight" />}
            iconPosition="right"
          >
            Find Store
          </Button>
        </div>
      </section>
    )
  }
  ```

> 4. Open the terminal and run `yarn dev` to see the section with initial styling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Open the terminal and run `yarn dev` to see your changes.
```

  ![new-section-without-styles](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/without-styles___4680d2a9a67e4175f3b73eff036ca8ac.png)

> 5. Add more styles to the section by using [design tokens](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/global-tokens-overview#global-tokens) and [component's data attributes](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/atoms-button#customization) to the `ourStores.module.scss` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Add more styles to the section by using [design tokens](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/global-tokens-overview#global-tokens) and [component-specific data attributes](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/atoms-button#customization) to the `.module.scss` file:
```

  ```scss mark=6:42
  .ourStores {
    @import '@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Button/styles.scss';
    @import '@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Select/styles.scss';
    @import '@faststore/ui/src/components/molecules/SelectField/styles.scss';

    width: 100%;
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
    padding: var(--fs-spacing-5);
    margin: auto;
    background-color: var(--fs-color-neutral-bkg);

    [data-fs-select-field] {
      flex-direction: column;
      align-items: flex-start;

      [data-fs-select] {
        border: var(--fs-border-width) solid var(--fs-border-color);
        margin-top: var(--fs-spacing-0);
        width: 10rem;
        height: var(--fs-control-min-height);

        select {
          width: 100%;
        }
      }
    }
  }

  .ourStores__title {
    font-size: var(--fs-text-size-title-section);
    margin-bottom: var(--fs-spacing-1);
  }

  .ourStores__content {
    display: flex;
    align-items: flex-end;
    column-gap: var(--fs-spacing-5);
    margin: var(--fs-spacing-5);
  }
  ```

> 6. Update the `OuStore.tsx` file by adding new CSS classes to style the title and the `SelectedField`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Update the component's file by adding the appropriate CSS classes to elements, ensuring they align with the newly defined styles in your stylesheet. For example:
```

  export interface OurStoresProps {
    title: string
    description: string
  }

  export default function OurStores(props: OurStoresProps) {
    return (
      <section className={styles.ourStores}>
        <h2 className={styles.ourStores__title}>{props.title}</h2>
        <p>{props.description}</p>
        <div className={styles.ourStores__content}>
          <SelectField
            id="select-state-store"
            label="State:"
            options={{
              newYork: 'New York',
              arizona: 'Arizona',
              massachusetts: 'Massachusetts',
              hawaii: 'Hawaii',
            }}
          />
          <SelectField
            id="select-city-store"
            label="City:"
            options={{
              newYorkCity: 'New York City',
              phoenix: 'Phoenix',
              boston: 'Boston',
              honolulu: 'Honolulu',
            }}
          />
          <Button
            variant="secondary"
            icon={<Icon name="ArrowRight" />}
            iconPosition="right"
          >
            Find Store
          </Button>
        </div>
      </section>
    )
  }
  ```

> 6. Run again `yarn dev` in the terminal to see the final result of the styled section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in your browser to see the updated component with the applied styles.
```
